All right, now let's understand
the other way of scaling
the databases on scale.
That is known as partitioning.
So let me show you what happens
in partitioning thing.
Let's take one instance
of the database.
So let's say that this
is your instance, okay?
What you can do is you can
actually create multiple instances
of your database.
These are multiple different,
different servers.
There is no redundancy, there
is no duplication of data.
Okay?
What you can do is in this case,
let's name these instances, right?
This is your instance zero.
So, so I'll just name it as zero.
This is your instance, one.
Okay, Then this is your
instance number two.
I'll just quickly name them.
And finally we have the five here.
Now what you can do is see
a lot of data is coming, which
I need to put it here, right?
So what I can do is I can actually
create a hash function where you
can, you can give me some key,
most probably the user id, and
this hash function will return an
index.
How can you return an index?
The simplest function is
take the ID and mod it with
the size of your instances.
How many instances do you have?
You have six instances, right?
Zero to five.
So I'll just say six.
Whatever is returned to me, I
will use that database to store.
Now what happens is, let's say
you are storing something.
So the data is basically divided it
into this six, six partitions.
Your some data is stored here, some
data is stored here, some data is
stored here, some data is stored
here, some data is stored here.
Now the best part about this
particular strategy, which
is known as partitioning,
the data is actually divided
into the multiple databases.
Okay?
So that means one database
is not storing the data.
Multiple databases are there
which are storing your data.
How to choose that, which
database is perfect for you,
you have a hash function.
So this is the simplest
hash function.
You can even write this hash
function in such a way that hey,
all the India traffic will go here,
all the US customer data will go
here, all the European, traffic
will go here.
You can even partition based
on the geolocation.
You can partition based
on the IP address.
You can partition it on the user ID
basis howsoever you want to do it.
So partitioning algorithm is yours.
But this is also one way of scaling
the databases where you can divide
the load between the databases.
For this particular approach, there
is this one problem that if you
have to do a, join lookup, for
example, some data is here and some
data is here, then you have to
query it from two tables and then
you have to join them manually in
your application.
So joining is not easy.
It can take time.
So that is one downside
of this particular method.
But yes, partitioning of databases
is again a popular strategy
to scale the databases.
That is by dividing the load into
multiple instances of the database.
Okay, so now you know two ways
to scale a database.
That is one is the multi replica.
So you can have redundancy.
But the only problem
is that data is late.
The data in the read replicas
are late and a master slave
architecture is followed.
Then is data partitioning that
you can actually spin up multiple
databases, independent databases
which can store the data.
And further you can even have
read replicas of every instance.
I mean it is going to be very
costly, but yes, you can do it.
Now this is the master.
Just a second.
Now this is the master database.
Then it has three replicas.
So this further scales
every partition by a lot.
So this is how you can actually
scale the databases as
well in the system design.